



TODO Working Group                                              S. Smith
Internet-Draft                                             ProSapien LLC
Intended status: Informational                           10 October 2021
Expires: 13 April 2022


                   Self-Addressing IDentifier (SAID)
                        draft-ssmith-said-latest

Abstract

   TODO Abstract Self-Addressing-IDentifier (SAID)

Discussion Venues

   This note is to be removed before publishing as an RFC.

   Source for this draft and an issue tracker can be found at
   https://github.com/WebOfTrust/ietf-said.

Status of This Memo

   This Internet-Draft is submitted in full conformance with the
   provisions of BCP 78 and BCP 79.

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF).  Note that other groups may also distribute
   working documents as Internet-Drafts.  The list of current Internet-
   Drafts is at https://datatracker.ietf.org/drafts/current/.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

   This Internet-Draft will expire on 13 April 2022.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (c) 2021 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
   document authors.  All rights reserved.

   This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
   Provisions Relating to IETF Documents (https://trustee.ietf.org/
   license-info) in effect on the date of publication of this document.
   Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights
   and restrictions with respect to this document.  Code Components
   extracted from this document must include Simplified BSD License text
   as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
   provided without warranty as described in the Simplified BSD License.

Table of Contents

   1.  Introduction
   2.  Conventions and Definitions
   3.  Security Considerations
   4.  IANA Considerations
   5.  Normative References
   Acknowledgments
   Author's Address

1.  Introduction

   The advantage of a content-addressable identifier is that it is
   cryptographically bound to the contents, providing a secure root of
   trust.  Any cryptographic commitment to a content-addressable
   identifier is functionally equivalent (given comparable cryptographic
   strength) to a cryptographic commitment to the content itself.

   A self-addressing identifier (SAID) is a special class of content-
   addressable identifier that is also self-referential.  The special
   class is distinguished by a special derivation method or process to
   generate the SAID.  This derivation method is determined by the
   combination of both a derivation code prefix included in the
   identifier and the context in which the identifier appears.  The
   reason for a special derivation method is that a naive cryptographic
   content-addressable identifier must not be self-referential, i.e. the
   identifier must not appear within the content that it is identifying.
   This is because the naive cryptographic derivation process of a
   content-addressable identifier is a cryptographic digest of the
   serialized content.  Changing one bit of the serialization content
   will result in a different digest.  Therefore, self-referential
   content-addressable identifiers require a special derivation
   protocol, method, or process.

   The SAID derivation protocol assumes that the fields in a JSON
   serialization are ordered in stable, round-trippable, reproducible
   order, i.e., canonical.  The natural canonical ordering for JSON is
   called property creation order or field insertion order.  This
   logical ordering has been supported by the stringify() method in
   JavaScript with a custom reordering function using
   Reflect.ownPropertyKeys() since ES6, and natively without a
   reordering function by stringify() since ES11 (2020).  Property
   creation order is a natural canonicalization, as it supports any
   predefined logical ordering that one chooses by creating or inserting
   the properties (fields) in that predefined order.  Other languages
   have long supported ordered dictionaries or mappings that support
   insertion order of the fields when serializing the mapping to/from
   JSON. *_The canonical serialization problem for JSON is now a solved
   problem._*

   The self-addressing identifier derivation process is as follows:

   *  replace the value of the id field in the content that will hold
      the self-addressing identifier with a dummy string of the same
      length as the eventually derived self-addressing identifier

   *  compute the digest of the content with the dummy value for the id
      field

   *  prepend the derivation code to the digest and encode appropriately
      to create the final derived self-addressing identifier of the same
      total length including the prepended code as the dummy.

   *  replace the dummy with the self-addressing identifier

   As long as any verifier recognizes the derivation code, the SAID is a
   cryptographically secure commitment to the contents in which it is
   embedded; it is a cryptographically verifiable, self-referential,
   content-addressable identifier.  Because an SAID is both self-
   referential and cryptographically bound to the contents it
   identifies, anyone can validate this binding if they follow the
   _derivation protocol_ outlined above.

   To elaborate, this approach of deriving self-referential identifiers
   from the contents they identify, is called self-addressing.  It
   allows any validator to verify or re-derive the self-referential,
   self-addressing identifier given the contents it identifies.  To
   clarify, a SAID is different from a standard content address or
   content-addressable identifier in that a standard content-addressable
   identifier may not be included inside the contents it addresses.
   Moreover, a standard content-addressable identifier is computed on
   the finished immutable contents, and therefore is not self-
   referential.

2.  Conventions and Definitions

   The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
   "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and
   "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in
   BCP 14 [RFC2119] [RFC8174] when, and only when, they appear in all
   capitals, as shown here.

3.  Security Considerations

   TODO Security

4.  IANA Considerations

   This document has no IANA actions.

5.  Normative References

   [RFC2119]  Bradner, S., "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate
              Requirement Levels", BCP 14, RFC 2119,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC2119, March 1997,
              <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc2119>.

   [RFC8174]  Leiba, B., "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC
              2119 Key Words", BCP 14, RFC 8174, DOI 10.17487/RFC8174,
              May 2017, <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc8174>.

Acknowledgments

   TODO acknowledge.

Author's Address

   S. Smith
   ProSapien LLC

   Email: sam@prosapien.com
